OK, so now that we have the transcript parsing fully working.
I want to take a deeper dive into something that will almost certainly trip you up.
It used to trip me up all the time when I was for the first several years, in fact, after I had initially
learned rejects.
And that has to do with the way that the asterisk works.
OK.
So I think I've already mentioned that the asterisk has a behavior in which it is considered to be greedy.
And what that means is that it wants to match as many characters as possible.
And this behavior can be unintuitive for us if we don't really understand how it works.
So to show this, I'm going to change how we're writing.
This rejects a little bit to make the point in the way I'm going to do this is first, I'm going to
duplicate that line and then I'm going to comment out these two lines here.
And instead of anchoring the GPA sections of the rejects with the words weighted in unweighted, which
are obviously two different words, instead, I'm going to anchor it on the word cumulative.
And the reason I'm going to do that is because that is going to open up the possibility for ambiguity
because we've got two words of cumulative here, right?
I chose waited in unweighted before because they're different.
But if I had chosen the word cumulative, I would have caused myself a little extra work or a little
extra thinking that I'd have to do.
So now I'm going to show you what, what would happen if we had chosen the word cumulative?
We can still make it work, but we have to be a little bit more mindful of some things.
So I'm going to change this word weighted here to cumulative.
Like so and then OK, yeah, and I've already commented out the last bit here.
Now I'm going to leave this this one here on line 35, because we'll make use of that.
OK?
And then we're also going to have to change this because this won't match anything we've got here.
So the way I'm going to do that is with another star.
So you might think what we're saying here now is, in fact, if we start at the state ID part here,
you might think what this is saying is after you match the state I.D., which is this bit here in between
the parentheses, then match a word boundary and then take off.
And let me remind you, a word boundary is just the area between a word character and a non word character.
OK.
So in this case, the last word character we have is this three within the parentheses.
And what comes after it is presumably a new line character.
And the way I know that is because there are no more spaces or characters that I can select here.
If I try to select, it's not letting me select any, you know, any explicit characters.
OK, so so I know that where that cursor is is a boundary.
So next, what it appears that we're saying is match zero or more characters this bit right here, match
zero or more of any character until you encounter the word cumulative.
So you would think that that would mean.
Come down here and match until you get here to the word cumulative, right?
Then match the word cumulative, which is here and then again.
Match zero or more characters until you get to a digit or a period, which you would think would mean
match any and all of these until you're right here, right?
And then we would expect that the three point eighty two would be captured.
And so then when we print weighted GPA, we expect that way too deeper will be printed here, by the
way, the squiggly line here.
The reason this is coming up, the I.D. sees that we are referring to a named capture group with the
same name twice.
And the idea, though it is very smart, it's not quite smart enough to recognize that this Line 21
is actually being commented out within the regular expression language itself.
I guess the idea just doesn't.
Isn't parsing the X enough to see that this is common to that, or it doesn't know that that's a comment.
So that's why we're getting that squiggly lines, we can ignore it, even though it's it's causing a
little consternation to the idea.
OK.
So anyway, let's go ahead and run this and see what we end up with.
We get a six and that six must be coming from right there.
So what is going on?
You probably weren't expecting that.
Well, to understand this, we need to understand exactly how the asterisks modifying this diet is actually
behaving.
So as we've stated, as I've stated, the asterisk is greedy and it wants to match as many characters
as it possibly can while allowing the regular expression to still be true.
And so while it may appear that the regular expression engine would start here and then match until
it gets to this first, see that is not what it does at all.
Instead, the way you should look at it is that any time you use this pattern of a dot star, you should
pretty much assume that what it's going to do with the regular expression engine is going to do by default
is to grab the entire rest of the string.
So not from here to here, but actually from here all the way to the end of the string.
And then it's going to go backward until it finds something that just that matches the expression as
it exists.
So if you assume that initially the Start star will try to grab everything and then it will work its
way backward until it is satisfied.
Let's see what that looks like.
So we're on this dot star right here.
OK?
And the next thing that comes after it is the fact that it says, OK, now find the word cumulative,
right?
So if we assume that it's going to start off by grabbing everything and then it's going to look for
the word cumulative, then it's going to go backward.
It's going to say the Dot star here matches all of this, followed by a six.
And then it's going to say, OK, is this thing that's following my dot star selection?
The word cumulative, obviously, the answer is no, it is not.
So then it's going to back off again.
It's going to say, OK, now everything to the right of what I have selected, which again, is this
dot star pattern.
Here is everything to the right of this.
The word cumulative.
The answer is no.
And so it's going to keep backing off.
Are we are we seeing the word cumulative yet to the right of the selection?
Everything that's highlighted in blue?
The answer continues to be no.
So it keeps backing off until.
Bam, now we've got the word cumulative to the right or after everything that is selected in blue.
And again, everything that's selected in blue is represented by this that star here on line 19 at the
very end.
OK, so now we're at a word cumulative.
OK, so now we've got a match here.
So now this cumulative is this cumulative, so already we're kind of in a little bit of a unexpected
situation, we thought it would match this first cumulative, but it's actually matching the second
cumulative because it started off selecting everything and then back going backward, backtracking until
it found a match for that word.
Cumulative.
OK.
And then now that we're at this word cumulative, then we have another dot stars.
So again, what should we assume from this point here?
We've got this match, so we should now assume that this that star also is going to select all of the
rest of the string to the very, very end.
OK.
And then it's going to backtrack until the rest of this expression is true.
So what it's going to look for after this, that star is one or more digits or periods.
Followed by a boundary and then zero or more characters, so we can just assume nothing here because
it can be zero, right?
But a boundary?
OK, so one or more digits or periods followed by a boundary?
OK, so first off, the Dot Stark grabs everything and then it says, OK, do I do I have a digit or
a period, one or more digits or periods to the right of my selection?
The answer is no.
So then it's going to back off by one, backtrack by one.
So now it says, OK, now do I have a one or more digits or periods followed by a boundary?
Well, now the answer is yes, because you have one digit and then you've got a boundary again.
And so the six ends up being captured in this capture group.
And Bam, that's what's printed out there.
So that's the six that we are seeing here.
All right.
Now, now that you understand what the regex engine is actually doing.
What can we do about it?
Well, we can make the rejects engine behave in a less greedy way, and it's actually quite easy to
do.
So we'll start with this greediness right here on Line 19, which caused the regex engine to find the
second cumulative instead of the first one.
Like we kind of thought it was going to do.
All we need to do is to simply tell the regular expression engine, don't treat this asterisk as behaving
greedily.
OK.
Make it not greedy.
And to do that, you simply put a question mark behind it.
So let's run this again and see what we get now.
Oh, look at that.
We still get a six.
Now, why are we still getting a fix?
Well, I'll explain why we actually have made progress.
It just doesn't look like it.
So now what's happening is the regular expression engine from this point here where the state idea is
selected, which is where we are in in this neighborhood, right?
We're right around here.
We've told the asterisk not to be greedy anymore.
So now it is actually going to just go forward until it encounters this word.
Cumulative.
OK, so now it's behaving on this cumulative match the way that we would have expected it to.
OK, so now we're at the word cumulative.
However, when it gets to this that star here from this first word cumulative, what's it going to do?
It's still going to select all the way to the end first, and then it's going to backtrack.
We're still in the same place that we were before, which is OK, it's going to backtrack until it finds
a digit or a period.
It does so here finds the six six gets captured, gets printed.
So we're still getting the same apparent results, even though it started from the first cumulative
rather than the second one.
But the end result still is the same.
So now all we need to do is put another question mark right here, like so to tell the regex engine,
don't be greedy on this asterisk either, right?
Right there.
So let's run this again.
Oh, look at that.
Three point eight.
Two.
So let's just analyze what just happened here.
Starting from the state I.D. OK, so it matched the state I.D. It found the state I.D. and captured
it, and then it found the boundary.
And then and then it tried to select as many characters, zero or more characters without being greedy,
though, as it could until it came to the first instance of the word cumulative.
So that is to say it started here at the boundary and then it went forward until it found the word cumulative
as opposed to the normal greedy behavior, which would be to grab everything and then go backward until
it has the word cumulative to the right of it.
Right.
So this time it went forward until it had the word cumulative.
Then it finds, then it matches cumulative, which is right here.
Then again, it goes forward because we now have another dot star which is told to not be greedy, which
means it's going to go forward instead of backward, OK, until it finds a digit or a period.
So the Dot star is all of this, including this space right up until here.
And then it finds a digit or period, right?
Three point eight two and then it grabbed all of that.
So now it's behaving the way that we originally thought it would be.
OK.
Now you will encounter this pattern any time you are trying to apply a regular expression to a string
that has some repeating pattern in it, and you're using the greedy operator like we originally were.
Any time you've got that greedy operator and you have the possibility of looking for something in your
regular expression, especially after the greedy operator.
And the thing that's after it is repeated throughout the string or throughout the string.
OK.
That's when you can encounter this kind of problem.
So you need to be really well aware of that.
So like I said, it actually took me a few years to fully grasp why the greedy operator or greedy quantifier
was giving me weird results that I just couldn't intuitively understand.
And it was because I just didn't understand that it actually grabs everything and then goes backward.
OK.
So this is an incredibly helpful lesson for you to make sure you take the heart and learn really well.
It will save you a lot of time in trying to analyze how your regular expressions are working, and that's
going to wrap up this lesson and I'll see you in the next one.